# :construction_worker: Contributing to Librarians

Thank you for considering contributing to the Librarian! Welcome to our Contribution Guide.

## Table of Contents

1. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
2. [Reporting an Issue](#reporting-an-issue)
3. [Cloning the repository](#cloning-the-repository)

## Getting Started

If you don't want contribute with code, but want to help us Reporting Issues, just skip to [Reporting an Issue](#reporting-an-issue) section.

However, if you prefer to work with code, simply go to [Cloning the repository](#cloning-the-repository) section and continue to the end of this document.

## Reporting an Issue

1. Describe what you expected to happen and what actually happens.

2. If possible, include a minimal but complete example to help us reproduce the issue.

3. We'll try to fix it as soon as possible but be in mind that Librarian is open source and you can probably submit a pull request to fix it even faster.

4. Just [open you issue](https://github.com/danilolutz/librarian/issues/new).

## Cloning the repository

First of all you'll need some tools like [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) and [Git](https://git-scm.com/) to get your development environment working, as code editor we used [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), but it's only a suggestion, use whatever code editor you want.

You can clone by https:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/danilolutz/librarian.git
```

Or by SSH:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:danilolutz/librarian.git
```

Whatever you prefer. Clone the repo and start your work following this steps (aka gitflow):

1. :wrench: Create a new branch based on **main**
2. :white_check_mark: Name you branch how you prefer BUT **main**
3. :art: Do the best of your art
4. :pencil: Make commit with a clear message
5. :ok_hand: Open a pull request from your new branch to **main**

Maybe you ask yourself: _How can I contribute?_ or _What i can do?_

We'll help you:

- You can find and fix bugs;
- Implement openned issues;
- Improve the Librarian programming.

## Troubleshoot

You may face problems with `yarn start` script. If say so do this steps:

```bash
cat .yarnrc
```

It should return the results below:

```bash
# THIS IS AN AUTOGENERATED FILE. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY.
# yarn lockfile v1


lastUpdateCheck 1637669537223
```

If you don't see any entry for python (preferred 3.8.10) you must put it manually:

```bash
yarn config set python "/usr/bin/python3"
```

When you execute `cat .yarnrc` again, it should show you:
```bash
# THIS IS AN AUTOGENERATED FILE. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY.
# yarn lockfile v1


lastUpdateCheck 1637669537223
python "/usr/bin/python3" # <-- this line was added.
```
